Add release notes for 0.243 (#15334)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/release/release-0.243.rst

=============
Release 0.243
=============

> **Highlights**

Reviewer: We should add verifier's support for create statements here

==============

> * Add function ``truncate(x, n)``.

Reviewer 2: You should link to the documentation for these functions.  And maybe give a brief summary here of what they do. (and same for the actual notes below)

> * Add aggregation function ``approxMostFrequent``.

Reviewer: Also, in the highlights, we don't need to copy paste from below and can rephrase. For example here - we can just say something like 

```
Add functions func1, func2, func3
```

> * Add session property ``check_access_control_on_utilized_columns_only``, which, when enabled, only performs access control checks on columns that would actually be required to produce the query output, ignoring columns that are referenced in the query, but are not required to compute the query results.

Reviewer 3: nit `, which, when enabled,` reads a bit clunky .
Can we simplify the entire sentence.

* Add session property ``remote_functions_enabled`` to configure whether remote functions are allowed.

**Details**
===========

General Changes
_______________
* Add function ``truncate(x, n)``.
* Add aggregation function ``approxMostFrequent``.

> * Fix query failure when explaining ``Use`` statement.

Reviewer 2: should "Use" be in all caps?

> * Fix query failure when explaining ``Use`` statement.

Reviewer: Following the order in https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guidelines#order-of-changes this should go to the top

> * Add session property ``check_access_control_on_utilized_columns_only``, which, when enabled, only performs access control checks on columns that would actually be required to produce the query output, ignoring columns that are referenced in the query, but are not required to compute the query results.

Reviewer: Following the guideline in https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guidelines#phrasing - this should be phrased as (also, we can shorten it)

```
Add support for ignoring access checks on columns that are referenced in the query,
but are not required to compute the query results. This can be enabled by the session .....
```

@prithvip for his thoughts on this framing.

Reviewer: Also, we should move this to `Security changes` section - https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guidelines#order-of-sections

Reviewer 4: Consider rewrite:
> Add session property check_access_control_on_utilized_columns_only, which toggles performing access control checks on columns that are used to produce the query output thereby ignoring columns that are referenced in the query, but are not required to compute the query results.

> * Add session property ``remote_functions_enabled`` to configure whether remote functions are allowed.

Reviewer 2: what's a remote function?  Do we have documentation about this anywhere?

Reviewer: Yes, lets link to an issue/pr/documentation that has more details on this.

Reviewer 5: Looks like we dont want to expose this feature to users yet. Talked with @rongrong  and she suggested i remove this from the release note.

> * Remove config property ``optimizer.optimize-full-outer-join-with-coalesce`` and the corresponding session property ``optimize_full_outer_join_with_coalesce``. The feature will always be enabled.

Reviewer 4: nit: config -> configuration. Every sentence after uses configuration 😃

* Remove deprecated configuration properties ``grouped-execution-for-aggregation-enabled`` and ``grouped-execution-for-join-enabled`` and their corresponding session properties ``grouped_execution_for_aggregation`` and ``grouped_execution_for_join``.  These have been replaced by a single configuration property ``grouped-execution-enabled`` and session property ``grouped-execution``.

> * Remove deprecated configuration property ``dynamic-schedule-for-grouped-execution`` and session property ``dynamic_schedule_for_grouped_execution``.  No replacement is needed.

Reviewer 3: Is mentioning `No replacement is needed.` important?

Reviewer 2: nah we can leave it out.

> Verifier Changes

Reviewer: Ordering per https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guidelines#order-of-sections

________________

> * Improve verifier handling of broadcast memory limit by removing it, if it is set via session property to avoid CBO broadcast induced failures on smaller verifier clusters.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't we mention what is the session property that we are using here.

> * Improve verifier handling of broadcast memory limit by removing it, if it is set via session property to avoid CBO broadcast induced failures on smaller verifier clusters.

Reviewer: `Add support for removing explicitly set broadcast memory limits`

* Add support to verify ``CREATE VIEW`` and ``CREATE TABLE`` queries.

Geospatial Changes
__________________

> * Add support to allow geometries outside of the spatial partitioning to match in a partitioned spatial join.

Reviewer 2: Is this a bug fix or a feature?  It sounds like it might be a bug fix. @jagill

Reviewer 6: Between feature and bug fix it's more of a bug fix.  The intended behavior wasn't fully specified, but it is now more intuitive.

Hive Changes
____________

> * Add caching module for Parquet metadata.

Reviewer 2: what's this mean from a user perspective?

Author: @ClarenceThreepwood @shixuan-fan

Reviewer 7: How about rephrasing this to:

`Add support for Parquet file metadata caching`

The related config is `parquet.metadata-cache-enabled`, `parquet.metadata-cache-size` and `parquet.metadata-cache-ttl-since-last-access`, but I'm not sure if we want to go to this level of detail after reading other bullets.

> * Improve metadata query optimizer so that it does not fetch all partitions from metastore when hive filter pushdown is enabled.

Reviewer: `Optimize metadata query optimizer` 

https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guidelines#order-of-changes

Pinot Changes
_____________

> * Add support for pushing down aggregation function ``approx_distinct(x, e)`` to Pinot connector.

Reviewer: `to Pinot connector` is redundant here. This is the Pinot changes section

> * Add support for pushing down array functions ``array_sum``, ``array_min``, ``array_max``, ``array_average``, and ``contains`` to Pinot connector.

Reviewer 3: ``array_average``, and 
Extra comma ?

=============
Release 0.243
=============

**Highlights**
==============
* Add :func:`approx_most_frequent` aggregation function.

> * Add support to :func:`truncate` function to allow the users specify the number of digits to the right of the decimal point in the truncated result.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
* Add support to :func:`truncate` function for specifying the number of digits to the right of the decimal point in the truncated result.
```

* Add support for ignoring access checks on columns that are referenced in the query, but are not required to compute the query results. This can be enabled with the ``check_access_control_on_utilized_columns_only`` session property.

> * Add support to verify ``CREATE VIEW`` and ``CREATE TABLE`` queries.

Reviewer: `support in verifier to` - given that this is not the verifier section, we should add this context

**Details**
===========

General Changes
_______________

> * Fix query failure when explaining ``USE`` statement.

Reviewer: This can be made clearer by saying - "Fix query failure when using ``EXPLAIN`` with a ``USE`` statement" . The word "explaining" is a bit unclear in my opinion

* Add :func:`approx_most_frequent` aggregation function.

> * Add support to :func:`truncate` function to allow the users specify the number of digits to the right of the decimal point in the truncated result.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
* Add support to :func:`truncate` function for specifying the number of digits to the right of the decimal point in the truncated result.
```

* Remove configuration property ``optimizer.optimize-full-outer-join-with-coalesce`` and the corresponding session property ``optimize_full_outer_join_with_coalesce``. The feature will always be enabled.

> * Remove deprecated configuration properties ``grouped-execution-for-aggregation-enabled`` and ``grouped-execution-for-join-enabled`` and their corresponding session properties ``grouped_execution_for_aggregation`` and ``grouped_execution_for_join``.  These have been replaced by a single configuration property ``grouped-execution-enabled`` and session property ``grouped-execution``.

Reviewer 2: sorry, didn't notice before that the session property name was incorrect: 
```suggestion
* Remove deprecated configuration properties ``grouped-execution-for-aggregation-enabled`` and ``grouped-execution-for-join-enabled`` and their corresponding session properties ``grouped_execution_for_aggregation`` and ``grouped_execution_for_join``.  These have been replaced by a single configuration property ``grouped-execution-enabled`` and session property ``grouped_execution``.
```
